>> Steve Kinney: We need to talk about
equality in terms of JavaScript, which is,
I think a lot of the things that we we
know from, React and it's siblings,
all the front end frameworks,
honestly, is this idea of replacing
objects in immutable state and
all those kinds of things, right?
And so
a lot of times in something like React,
we want the next version of the object
to be different than the last
version 'cause that's how
we trigger a re-render.
But that can become slightly problematic
when we are trying to test stuff, right?
Which is, we've stayed with
mostly simple values so far.
Two plus two should be four, right?
And in memory,
there is one number four, right?
If you make a string of the word four,
there's one of those in memory.
So if you take any given
string of F-O-U-R and
any other one of the same letters,
that's the same one in memory.
So they are equal.
You can put three triple equals
signs in there, life is good, right?
Well, one triple equals sign, or three
single equal signs, your choice, three,
triple, if you put nine equals in a row,
I don't know what happens, and
like that works.
Where it falls apart is that that
doesn't work for objects, right?
Including arrays, so on and so forth.
Which is two arrays with the exact
same contents are not triple equal
to each other, right?
Two objects with exact same keys and
values are not equal to each other, right?
Which is, again, I understand those
methods at the bottom of the screen where
I'm like, they're not equal to each other.
So we have to use something called two
equal I don't make the rules here,
I just explain them, okay?
Naming things is hard.
So, when we look at something
like 2b that is literally,
is this the exact same object?
Which means that if you took an object and
had a function that mutated it and
then did a 2b it would be
the test would pass, right?
But if you returned a brand new
object with the same properties,
it would not, right?
And so in those cases,
we have to swap out for
one of these two other methods on
expect that handle those cases.
One I use all the time,
the other I don't really use.
But, I'm here to show them to you.
So we're gonna take a look
real quick at this set of
tests right here that kind
of these will all pass.
And so we can go over here and
just run them to validate that
that are not lying to you.
They all pass, which will kind of
show us some of the differences, and
we'll make them not pass and
pass a few more times.
So you can see instead of tobe,
I'm using toequal, right?
And in this case, if we did to be,
it will fail, right?
Cuz this object and this object
are different objects in memory,
even though they look and
feel the exact same to us, right?
And the nice part is Vita is
not gonna make your test pass,
or V test or Jest or whatever.
They're not gonna make your test pass,
per se, but
they kind of know what happened, right?
And so at the very least,
you will get at a failing error message,
which is like, it seems like you might
have just used the wrong one here.
Which is nice because I don't wanna talk
about the times that I lost an hour or
two of my life cuz I forgot.
And cuz it's like they JSON serialize the
same string, they were probably the same,
but they're not effectively.
And you don't necessarily want your
test suite guessing for you, right?
It can suggest things to you, but
you probably don't want it guessing.
So, if we use to equal,
you'll see that it will pass, right?
And as a fun bonus, you'll notice that,
there's another little
helper that you can use.
In this case, the .not, right,
which is you're kinda expecting
it to be the opposite of it.
Honestly, the time that I use
that the most is I might choose
to have a test where it expect
whatever not to throw, right?
Now, if it's throws,
it will also like failure test, but
you can kind of like if you do need
the opposite, that can happen as well.
The other one that again I
can't wholeheartedly recommend,
but my job sometimes is to
just show you everything and
you decide what you wanna do with your
life, is you can also write test.fails.
And that will kinda flip the entire
thing inside out, right?
So, now we expect this test to fail.
Nobody needs that in their life.
That is useful for when you think
you might have a false positive or
something like that.
I would not leave that, I would not
commit that, you know what I mean?
That is when you need a sanity check
to like, is this passing because it's
supposed to pass or I wanna see a failure
message so I can verify that everything is
working the way I think it does,
then I think it makes a lot more sense.
But I can't necessarily recommend it
as something you commit in there.
You could argue the same thing for .todo
unless like you do intend on doing it.
Because what nobody needs is a code
base full of tests that say all that
.todo on it.
Could you set up ESLint rules that don't
allow you to at least commit a .skip,
or a .todo?
Cuz you could also accidentally skip tests
that you meant to have in there because
you were triaging and debugging.
Ask me how I know that.
>> Student: [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Anyway, these tests all
passed because they're just here to
demonstrate how these things work.
And you'll notice on the Vest Jest thing,
you'll even notice that like,
VS Code is even actually filling in
thinking this is Jest expectation.
So, if you needed proof that most of this
stuff will work in Jest just as well,
VS Code thinks I'm using Jest right now.
So we've got that in place, so we can see
that to be they would not be equal, but
to equal, what it does is basically,
if it's an object or in this array.
It goes through all of the values,
and it's basically saying, hey, okay,
go through all the keys for
each key that's the same.
Make sure the value is the same.
It's basically iterating down until
it gets those primitive values, and
if one of them doesn't match,
then they're not to equal, right?
And the difference between two equal and
two strict equal is like, for instance,
someone mentioned TypeScript earlier.
TypeScript is super cool as a type system,
because,
let's say you have an object that
has A is 1, B is 2, C is 3, right?
And your type necessitates A as a number,
as B as a number.
You could have extra properties,
typescripts, like,
since we're not touching them,
it's fine, right?
That is true for to equal, but
if you really want to say, like,
strictly no, are they exactly the same?
Right, then you could use toStrictEqual.
99.999% of the time,
I will likely just go with this one.
In the use case, you truly want to make
sure that there is not something undefined
or something like that
that you're not using.
Because this one is
basically saying A is 1.
This one has A, and
it also has this extra B on it.
That's fine with toEqual,
we don't really care as long as we
have all the properties we want.
But if you truly want to make sure
that there is no extra properties, and
it doesn't necessarily have
to even be undefined or
anything along those lines, but
toStrictEqual will absolutely verify it.
Same thing here, which is, it also needs
to be an instance of the same object.
So this person that we have
up here has a name property.
It's effectively the same.
It's got a different prototype, however.
They are equal but
they're not toStrictEqual.
And a lot of times like if I'm testing
a constructor or something like that,
I just wanna make sure
the property is the same.
I don't don't necessarily care.
I don't wanna make a second person object,
so on and so forth.
This most part does what I want.
The important part here is that to be and
to equal serve very different purposes.
To be for primitive values, to equal for
any kind of array or object.
Strict equals there for the,
if you feel like you need For
some particular use case, I don't.